# Movie-Better

In this project, we will build a website that facilitates movie betting based on critical acclaim. On this website, users can bet on how good or bad a movie will be before it’s released. Then once the movie gets released and actual ratings are available, betters can win or lose money based on how accurate their prediction was (we will design a simple algorithm for this). 

The current tech stack that we plan to use (subject to change) is MERN: MongoDB, Express, React, and Node. MongoDb is a No-SQL database, which allows us to have greater flexibility in our data querying operations. React will allow us to build an easily maintainable frontend, while Express and Node will help uplift our backend operations. The dataset we will be using is the IMDB database. We will find all movies that have a startYear, which represents the release year, that is later than the current date. 

By the end of this project, we plan to demonstrate our proficiency in data management through the utilization of advanced tech stacks (such as MERN). Our goal is to build on the foundational concepts that we learn in class and take them one step further with a unique, open project in which we can add complexities given different data, design, and functions.

This project is interesting because we are basing it off of existing data management sites and introducing cross-functionality amongst the various databases. For example, the idea of the database at the core relates to a stock market trading exchange platform, but the data used to run the platform is taken from IMDB. Additionally, movies and the art of film criticism are two things that people commonly interact with across cultures or interests, meaning that this project has a wide applicability. It will be a fun and interactive tool for movie fanatics and everyday people to gamify their predictions on movie releases every week. 

Some previous systems that have incorporated similar functionality include platforms like Robinhood in which users can exchange stocks or Amazon where users can buy/sell from a marketplace. A number of different sites can be good models for us to observe as we dive deeper into the programming process. Limitations in stock exchange platforms include the type of money that is accepted in the investing process, trading volume restrictions, speed on accepting orders, and some multithreading collision (like when two or more people accept a bet or an order at the same exact time). We can attempt to improve on these past errors by examining creating a robust system that is scalable, maintainable, and efficient. 
